README.md, before:

# Turtle Design Studio 🐢

A visual design studio for creating, exporting, and executing turtle graphics programs using WebGME.

---

## 📦 Project Structure

This repository contains:
- A metamodel (`meta/`) that defines the TurtleLang language
- Plugins (`src/plugins/`) for code generation, import, export, and execution
- Visualizer definitions (`src/visualizers/`)
- Example models and outputs
- Setup and deployment instructions

---

## 🛠️ Current Features

- ✅ Turtle command sequencing
- ✅ Code generation plugin (`CodeGenPlugin`)
- ✅ Execution plugin for generating output images
- ✅ Working import/export logic
- 🎨 Flowerburst visualizer output (example PNG included)

---

## 🧩 Bonus Visualizer: TurtleCommandWizard

While the Vanderbilt-hosted WebGME instance prevents direct upload of custom visualizers, I created a bonus GUI-based visualizer called `TurtleCommandWizard`.

### 🎛️ Features:
- Dropdown to select turtle commands
- Input field for values
- “Add Command” button dynamically generates nodes in the model
- Designed to simplify command creation without dragging or wiring blocks

### 📁 Source Files:
- File path: `src/visualizers/panels/TurtleCommandWizard/TurtleCommandWizardPanel.js`
- Zipped structure: [TurtleCommandWizard.zip](./TurtleCommandWizard.zip)

### 🔒 Deployment Note:
Due to file access restrictions in the student-hosted WebGME environment, this visualizer could not be linked to the `TurtleLang_instance`. All code is included for review and can be registered in a full-access instance of WebGME.

---

## 🔁 Reproducibility

To reproduce or test this Turtle Design Studio locally or in another instance of WebGME:

### ✅ System Requirements
- Python 3.12+
- pip (Python package manager)
- matplotlib, numpy (see `requirements.txt`)
- WebGME 2.47.0 (or higher) with file access

### 🐢 Setup Steps
1. Clone the repository:
   git clone https://github.com/ElleLynn08/turtle-design-studio.git
   cd turtle-design-studio

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   python3 -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate

3. Install dependencies:
   pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Run the turtle drawing locally:
   python generated_code.py

5. For full functionality, launch the project in a WebGME instance:
   - Load `TurtleStudio.webgmex`
   - Assign plugins and models as needed
   - For the bonus visualizer, extract `TurtleCommandWizard.zip` into:
     src/visualizers/panels/TurtleCommandWizard/

### 📦 Included Files
- `TurtleStudio.webgmex`: Sample model structure
- `TurtleCommandWizard.zip`: Bonus visualizer module
- `generated_code.py`: Auto-generated turtle script
- `drawing_output_flowerburst.png`: Output from code execution

---

## 🧠 Challenges & Troubleshooting

Throughout the development of this project, several technical challenges arose — each one offering valuable learning opportunities.

### 🔧 IDE Crash During Development
PyCharm unexpectedly crashed during an update, corrupting project files and breaking the virtual environment. I recovered the project by:
- Fully uninstalling and reinstalling PyCharm
- Recreating and activating a new `.venv`
- Reinstalling dependencies via `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### 🐢 Turtle Graphics Compatibility
Initial attempts to use the `turtle` module failed in WebGME’s server-side execution environment due to missing GUI support (`tkinter`). To resolve this:
- I rewrote the execution plugin to use `matplotlib` for headless image rendering
- Verified success by uploading and displaying the generated PNG inside WebGME

### 🔒 WebGME Visualizer Restrictions
The student-hosted version of WebGME did not permit uploading or registering new custom visualizers. To address this:
- I created and documented a bonus visualizer (`TurtleCommandWizard`) as a standalone module
- Packaged the folder structure and source file into a ZIP
- Linked to it via the `README.md` so it can be reviewed for bonus credit

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to the resources and documentation I consulted, as well as the support I leaned on through moments of technical uncertainty and late-night debugging. This project was both a learning experience and a labor of love.

---

## 📅 Assignment

This repository supports the **Mini Project** requirement for CS 6388: Model-Integrated Computing (Summer 2025).

All work is original and built by [Elle Lynn (ElleLynn08)](https://github.com/ElleLynn08). *(Michelle Lynn George)*

Commit message:

Final update: README polish, updated .webgmex, visualizer screenshot added

README.md, after:

# Turtle Design Studio 🐢

A visual design studio for creating, exporting, and executing turtle graphics programs using WebGME.

---

## 📦 Project Structure

This repository contains:
- A metamodel (`meta/`) that defines the TurtleLang language
- Plugins (`src/plugins/`) for code generation, import, export, and execution
- Visualizer definitions (`src/visualizers/`)
- Example models and outputs
- Setup and deployment instructions

---

## 🛠️ Current Features

- ✅ Turtle command sequencing
- ✅ Code generation plugin (`CodeGenPlugin`)
- ✅ Execution plugin for generating output images
- ✅ Working import/export logic
- 🎨 Flowerburst visualizer output (example PNG included)

---

## 🧩 Bonus Visualizer: TurtleCommandWizard

While the Vanderbilt-hosted WebGME instance prevents direct upload of custom visualizers, I created a bonus GUI-based visualizer called `TurtleCommandWizard`.

### 🎛️ Features:
- Dropdown to select turtle commands
- Input field for values
- “Add Command” button dynamically generates nodes in the model
- Designed to simplify command creation without dragging or wiring blocks

## 🎨 Visual Enhancements

To ensure model creation is intuitive and visually accessible, I added SVG-based decorators to key command nodes. Each command displays:
- A colored background
- Custom SVG icon
- Display format like `command(value)`

This improves usability and aligns with the bonus visual smoothness requirement.
![Visualizer Screenshot](./final-visual-layout.png)


### 📁 Source Files:
- File path: `src/visualizers/panels/TurtleCommandWizard/TurtleCommandWizardPanel.js`
- Zipped structure: [TurtleCommandWizard.zip](./TurtleCommandWizard.zip)

### 🔒 Deployment Note:
Due to file access restrictions in the student-hosted WebGME environment, this visualizer could not be linked to the `TurtleLang_instance`. All code is included for review and can be registered in a full-access instance of WebGME.

---

## 🔁 Reproducibility

To reproduce or test this Turtle Design Studio locally or in another instance of WebGME:

### ✅ System Requirements
- Python 3.12+
- pip (Python package manager)
- matplotlib, numpy (see `requirements.txt`)
- WebGME 2.47.0 (or higher) with file access

### 🐢 Setup Steps
1. Clone the repository:
   git clone https://github.com/ElleLynn08/turtle-design-studio.git
   cd turtle-design-studio

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   python3 -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate

3. Install dependencies:
   pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Run the turtle drawing locally:
   python generated_code.py

5. For full functionality, launch the project in a WebGME instance:
   - Load `TurtleStudio.webgmex`
   - Assign plugins and models as needed
   - For the bonus visualizer, extract `TurtleCommandWizard.zip` into:
     src/visualizers/panels/TurtleCommandWizard/

### 📦 Included Files
- `TurtleStudio.webgmex`: Sample model structure
- `TurtleCommandWizard.zip`: Bonus visualizer module
- `generated_code.py`: Auto-generated turtle script
- `drawing_output_flowerburst.png`: Output from code execution

---

## 🧠 Challenges & Troubleshooting

Throughout the development of this project, several technical challenges arose — each one offering valuable learning opportunities.

### 🔧 IDE Crash During Development
PyCharm unexpectedly crashed during an update, corrupting project files and breaking the virtual environment. I recovered the project by:
- Fully uninstalling and reinstalling PyCharm
- Recreating and activating a new `.venv`
- Reinstalling dependencies via `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### 🐢 Turtle Graphics Compatibility
Initial attempts to use the `turtle` module failed in WebGME’s server-side execution environment due to missing GUI support (`tkinter`). To resolve this:
- I rewrote the execution plugin to use `matplotlib` for headless image rendering
- Verified success by uploading and displaying the generated PNG inside WebGME

### 🔒 WebGME Visualizer Restrictions
The student-hosted version of WebGME did not permit uploading or registering new custom visualizers. To address this:
- I created and documented a bonus visualizer (`TurtleCommandWizard`) as a standalone module
- Packaged the folder structure and source file into a ZIP
- Linked to it via the `README.md` so it can be reviewed for bonus credit

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to the resources and documentation I consulted, as well as the support I leaned on through moments of technical uncertainty and late-night debugging. This project was both a learning experience and a labor of love.

---

## 📅 Assignment

This repository supports the **Mini Project** requirement for CS 6388: Model-Integrated Computing (Summer 2025).

All work is original and built by [Elle Lynn (ElleLynn08)](https://github.com/ElleLynn08). *(Michelle Lynn George)*
